# ElectricityPrices
 A tool to quick fetch data regarding the electricity market and create visualisations.

# ENTSO-E Day-Ahead Prices
This is a project to automate the process of fetching data from ENTSO-E 
RESTful API. 
Built in functionality to fetch data of several zones and specific date
interval, along with filtering out data according to a choosen percentile and range.
Background for the project is to have a quick and easy way to get a overview of
the energy prices in different countrys and between diffrent zones.

#Source 
https://transparency.entsoe.eu/ 

# Requirements
Python 3.10.2
requests 2.28.1
pandas 1.5.1
ipython 8.6.0
beautifulsoup4 4.11.1  
matplotlib 3.6.2
scipy 1.9.3
dataclasses 0.8
julian 0.14
lxml 4.9.1

# How to run
Install required packages according to requirements above and insert your 
api-token in "entsoedata.py" under load_db method.
Run from sqript: 
    from entsoedata import DayAheadPrices
    DayAheadPrices(["SE_1","FI","DK_1"],startdate="20200101",enddate=""20210101",
                    plottype="Histogram",percentile=95,range="Middle",
                    groupby="Day").get_historyplots()


# Methods
- Info 
    Returns table content of the shortcode options used as input for zones along
    with information about country and area.
    Run: DayAheadPrices().info()

- Load database
    Loads the database with according to choosen zones and interval. 
    Run: DayAheadPrices(["SE_1","FI"],startdate="20200101").load_db()

- Check status of zones
    Checks if the data for choosen zones and interval exists in the database.
    Use this method instead of load_db to avoid unnecessary amounts of 
    requests to api. 
    Run: DayAheadPrices(["SE_1","FI"],startdate="20200101").check_status_of_zones()

- Get history data
    Returns a dataframe with the extracted data from database according to
    choosen input to parameters. 
    Run: DayAheadPrices(["SE_1","FI"],startdate="20200101").get_historydata()

- Get history tables
    Displays the dataframe from get_historydata in the terminal.
    Run: DayAheadPrices(["SE_1","FI"],startdate="20200101").get_historytables()

- Get history plots 
    Returns visualisation of plots with data generated by get_historydata. 
    The options for the plots is "Line", "Scatter" and "Histogram. 
    Run: DayAheadPrices(["SE_1","FI"],startdate="20200101",plottype="Line").get_historyplots()

- Get analytics 
    Returns visualisation of the dataframe from get_historydata 
    with linear regression, prediction interval and confidence interval.
    Also returns equation for the linear regression along with values 
    for R², T-score, P-value and alpha.  
    Run: DayAheadPrices(["SE_1","FI"],startdate="20200101").get_analytics()
    
# Future development 
- Extend the project to other datapoints and not only day-ahead prices.
- Connect to frontend framework to present and interact with plots. 
- Add more plot options. 
- Forecasting with stochastic models.
- Add deep analytics dashboard. 
